Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
it is a set of rules for instructing a computer tp perform specific tasks. such as java python c++..

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
_The Runtime Interpreter: The Java runtime interpreter (java) is a stand-alone version of the Java interpreter built into the HotJava browser.
  The runtime interpreter provides the support to run Java executable programs in compiled, bytecode format.
_The Compiler: The Java compiler (javac) is used to compile Java source code files into executable Java bytecode classes.
  In Java, source code files have the extension .java.
_The Applet Viewer:The applet viewer is a tool that serves as a minimal test bed for final release Java applets.
  You can use the applet viewer to test your programs instead of having to wait for HotJava to support the final release of Java.
_The Debugger
_The Class File Disassembler
_The Header and Stub File Generator
_The Documentation Generator
_Applet Demos
_API Source Code



What is IDE?
A.
Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.
NetBeans
Eclipse
IntelliJ IDEA
Android Studio
BlueJ
jEdit
jGRASP


Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.
_SOURCE COD: Programmers write software programs using a programming language The programming language provides a series of instructions
 they can use to create the program they want. All the instructions a programmer uses to build the program are known as source code.
_compiler: is a special program that processes statements written in a particular programming language (source code) and turns them into
  machine language or "code" that a computer's processor uses.
_Bytecdes: or machine codes the result of compiling or after source codes compiled it gives bytecodes (in the form of a .class file) that
  are ready to be executed by JVM.
_JVM (Java Virtual Machine) Most systems use a single text segment, but actually use up to three data segments, depending on the storage
  class of the data being stored there. The four segments can be described as follows:
	• The code segment, also known as text segment contains the machine instructions of the program. The code can be thought of like the
	  text of a novel
	• The data segment contains the static data of the program, the variables that exist throughout program execution. 
	• The stack segment: simple data structure with a LIFO (last-in first-out) access policy.
	• The heap segment is a pool of memory used for dynamically allocated memory, such as with malloc() in C or new in C++ and Java.


what is class?
A.
class is a blueprint/template from which objects are created
object: Java is an object oriented programming language, meaning that the way we write code is through objects. But what are objects:
An object is anything that is known to have a state and behavior. So whatever you see to your left, right is an object. The laptop or
mobile phone you’re using right now is considered an object. As long as it has a state and behavior, it is considered an object.

What is object?
A.
object: Java is an object oriented programming language, meaning that the way we write code is through objects. But what are objects:
An object is anything that is known to have a state and behavior. So whatever you see to your left, right is an object. The laptop or
mobile phone you’re using right now is considered an object. As long as it has a state and behavior, it is considered an object.


What is the entry point of an application?
A.
it is the main method.

Why main is static?
A.
because keyword static allows main to be called without creating an object of the class.
also Java program will successfully compile, but it won't execute.


Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.
object. all classes inherited from object.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.
path: is a path environment variable required to run the executable application
 from any directory without having to type the full path of the command.
classpath: a system environment variable used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.
 in interface you can have only abstract methods its 100% abstraction, no method body but still can do getters and setters.
 interface class cannot inherit  from other class, but can inherit from another interface
 class( this is not common), and it is usually the super-super class but eventually you can extend from it.
only final and static variables are defined/ no necessary to write final in interface, defined by default.
no need to write abstract because in interface they are abstract by default. no body method but still can do get and set.

to create abstraction class use keyword abstract. It is partially abstract: it can have non abstract methods
but at list one abstract method. abstract classes should be extended using key word extends. an abstract class
can extend another class and implement multiple interfaces.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.
you just methods names tan you can provide a method body.

what is Access Specifier?
A.
 it is used to set the access level for classes, attributes, methods and constructors.
 for class you can use public or default. for attributes, methods and constructors you can use public, private, protected, default.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. object oriented programing refers to a language that uses objects.
	1) Inheritance :
	With inheritance, we can reuse the fields and methods of the existing class. Hence, inheritance
	 facilitates Reusability and is an important concept of OOPs. For the data that you don’t want to inherit from parent
	 class simply use private. Key word to inherit is "extends"

	2) Polymorphism:
	Polymorphism is a OOPs concept where one name can have many forms. (will example add)
	For example, you have a smartphone for communication. The communication mode you choose could be anything. It can be
	a call, a text message, a picture message, mail, etc. So, the goal is common that is communication, but their approach
	is different. This is called Polymorphism. two types overriding and overloading.

	3)abstraction: implementation hiding, it can have non abstract methods but at list one abstract method.

	4)interface, in interface you can have only abstract methods its 100% abstraction, no method body.
      	 interface class cannot inherit  from other class, but can inherit from another interface class( this is not common),
      	  and it usually the super-super class but eventually you can extend from it


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.
package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces
bu default: java.lang

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.
Java application programming interface (API) is a list of all classes that are part of the
Java development kit (JDK). It includes all Java packages, classes, and interfaces,
along with their methods, fields, and constructors.
String, class, all the data structure: array...

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.


What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.
Overloading: having 02 or more methods with the same name and same class with different parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.
Errors happen all the time  It might be an external system that is not responding, or it’s a simple programming error.
In all these situations, the errors occur at runtime and the application needs to handle them. Otherwise, it crashes
and can’t process further requests. Java can handle the exceptional event. using try catch block:
The try statement allows you to define a block of code to be tested for errors while it is being executed.
The catch statement allows you to define a block of code to be executed, if an error occurs in the try block.
The try and catch keywords come in pairs:

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.
static means unique if uou declare a variable or method static then it is is unique, i compare this to primary key in sql

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.
The final keyword is a non-access modifier used for classes, attributes and methods, which makes them non-changeable
 (impossible to inherit or override).

What is final, finally and finalize?
A.
The final keyword is useful when you want a variable to always store the same value, like PI (3.14159...).
  The final keyword is called a "modifier". You always have to give the value of variable when using final.
  The finally keyword is used to execute code (used with exceptions - try..catch statements) no matter if there
   is an exception or not.

What is a constructor ?
A.
Constructor is a code that initializes the newly created object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.
YES

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.
default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.

What is JVM stand for ?
A.
Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A.
while java is platform-independent language, the JVM is platform-dependent

What version of java are you using?
A.
 version 8

What is JAR stand for ?
A.
JAR stands for "Java ARchive". A JAR file is basically a zip-file which contains a couple of class files and a text
file containing some meta information.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.
JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine. It is a specification that provides runtime environment in which
 java bytecode can be executed.
JDK is an acronym for Java Development Kit.It physically exists.It contains JRE + development tools.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.
JRE is the implementation of JVM, it provides a platform to execute java programs. JRE consists of JVM and java binaries
and other classes to execute any program successfully. JRE doesn’t contain any development tools like java compiler,
 debugger...

What is compile time and run time?
A.
Compile-time is the instance where the code you entered is converted to executable. while Run-time is the instance
 where the executable is running. The terms "runtime" and "compile time" are often used to refer to different types of errors

What is heap?
A.
heap memory is used to store objects in Java

How java manage it's memory?
A.
RAM consist of stack and heap, Stack is used for static memory allocation and Heap for dynamic memory allocation.
Variables allocated on the stack are stored directly to the memory and access to this memory is very fast.
the execution of all those functions remains suspended until the very last function The stack is always reserved in
a LIFO order, the most recently reserved block is always the next
Variables allocated on the heap have their memory allocated at run time and accessing this memory is a bit slower, but
 the heap size is only limited by the size of virtual memory . Element of the heap have no dependencies with each other
  and can always be accessed randomly at any time.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.
_string objects are immutable. Immutable simply means unmodifiable or unchangeable.
Once string object is created its data or state can't be changed but a new string object is created.
String is slow and consumes more memory when you concat too many strings because every time it creates new instance.

_StringBuffer class is mutable.
StringBuffer is fast and consumes less memory when you cancat strings.
StringBuffer is synchronized i.e. thread safe. It means two threads can't call the methods of StringBuffer simultaneously.
StringBuffer is less efficient than StringBuilder

_StringBuilder class is mutable
StringBuilder is non-synchronized i.e. not thread safe. It means two threads can call the methods of StringBuilder
 simultaneously. StringBuilder is more efficient than StringBuffer.


What is Singleton class?
A.
This means you can create only one instance of a class. How would you let only one instance to be created of your class?
Other words if you are allowed to create only one instance of a class that’s mean this class is singleton.
Unfortunately there is no keyword for this, so the  way to do it is to fellow this java concept:

1st step you have to create a static object (static instance)
class Abc{
 static Abc obj = new Abc();
2nd step don’t allow user to create instance with default constructor: so declare constructor as private therefore it
cant be called.
private Abc()
3rd step  create a mothed that should be static which will return the object ( return obj; ) of instance of Abc and
will name this as ' getInstance'
You can have any name though not just instance.
public static Abc getInstance()
return obj;

By following this 3 steps you created that means you allowing only one instance of you class
Know how to create this only instance; its class_name.method_name
Abc obj1 = Abc.getinstance   // no new key word
Abc obj2 = Abc.getinstance.   // even if it is allowing you to create more instances but every time it will be the same
instance (so no point ding so)



What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.
The concept of Serialization and deserialization is used whenever data pertaining to objects have to be sent from one
application to another. Serialization is used to export application data into a file. The destination application then
uses deserialization to extract the data from the application for further use.
example; when you talk in phone the words or data are transmited through electrical or wireless signals. when they get
 deserialization the other user get to hear our words.

when to use transient variable in java?
A.
transient is a variables modifier used in serialization. At the time of serialization,
if we don’t want to save value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.
_While loop executes the code block only if the condition is True.
_Do While loop, condition is tested at the end of the loop so Do While executes
the statements in the code block at least once even if the condition Fails.

What is Enum?
A.
Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants.

What is Iterator?
A.
Iterators are used in Collection framework in Java to retrieve elements one by one.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.
Once string object is created its data, it can not be changed.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.
- is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.
Serial Collector is mostly designed for single-threaded environments.
-Parallel Garbage Collector is used for multi-threaded environments
What is JIT stands for?
A.
Just In Time compilation

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.- The garbage collector is a program which runs on the Java Virtual Machine which gets rid of objects
    which are not being used by a Java application anymore.
  - The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs.


Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A.
NO

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.
- The main difference between heap and stack is that stack memory is used to store local variables and function call
  while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.
- If there is no memory left in the stack for storing function call or local variable,
JVM will throw java.lang.StackOverFlowError, while if there is no more heap space for creating an object,
JVM will throw java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Java Heap Space.
- stack memory is a lot lesser than the size of  heap memory in Java.
- Variables stored in stacks are only visible to the owner Thread while objects created in the heap are visible to all thread.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.
Reflection in Java is the ability to examine and/or modify the properties or behavior of an object at run-time.

what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









